All right, so I'm gonna start here,
the next part is we're gonna talk
about the header and
we're gonna talk about the navbar.
And how we're gonna repurpose that over
a whole bunch of different breakpoints.
And we're gonna use Flexbox to lay this
all out because Flexbox is very cool
when it comes to navbars.
It does amazing things, and again,
this is one of the big differentiators
between Flexbox and Grid.
Flexbox can do some things with the navbar
that are really just not possible
with Grid.
So let's take a look at our
screenshots for what we're going for.
So here is the desktop
version of the navbar,
notice here I've got
the logo in the middle.
This tends to be a really
popular trend right now.
How do we get a logo in
the middle of the navbar?
When we go to a tablet, and
we can put the logo on the top
with the navbar underneath.
So how are we gonna
make that magic happen?
And then finally on mobile, I've just set
these navigation buttons up as buttons.
And in my advanced CSS layouts course,
I do walk through how to do a hamburger
button solution using CSS only.
So since I did that there, I thought
we'd do some different styling here
to show you how to make buttons here
instead for your mobile navigation.
There's only a few of these,
so the layout works.
Okay, so let's start then
with our HTML and our CSS.
So the first thing we want to
do is we're going to have to put
the HTML into this web page.
So it's the header of the document, so
we want it to go probably at the top,
probably before the mission.
And so, in basic format,
we're going to have a header,
all right, /header.
Then inside of that we're gonna have what,
we're gonna have some navigation.
One of the nice things about navigation is
that there's really only one correct way
to code navigation on your website and
that is with an unordered list.
That is all navigation is,
it is an unordered list of links.
You can visit them in
any particular order.
I know the marketing department wants
them to go in a very specific order on
the web page.
And that's fine but it is not an ordered
list, it is an unordered list, so
we can set that up.
And then we can set up our four
navigation items that we have here.
So we have an li, we have an a.
We'll set these not to really go anywhere
in particular because we're not going to
build a whole bunch of pages for these.
This is collections /a, /li and
then we can just copy-paste that.
So we have four of those and
we're going to have About,
Contact, and Donations.
Okay, straightforward enough,
that's a navbar.
And if we just take a look
at what we've got so
far, Open it up in our default browser,
that's what it should look like,
a tiny little navbar up there in the upper
left hand corner with all ugly
blue underlined links, okay?
So now what do we do in order
to get a logo on a page?
Well, we're gonna make this
logo part of this navbar.
So we can say /li /href
to make it a clickable,
Clickable logo, it's gonna go somewhere,
probably back to the homepage.
And then here for our image,
we're just simply going to say,
img src,
the image source is going to be what?
Here it is, header logo.svg,
I put it outside of these folders.
This is a new element that
you're going to want to grab,
so it is directly inside
of folder number five.
Here's the file here
called headerlogo.svg,
you can just drag that
into the images directory.
Yes, go ahead and move it,
you'll want to copy it to the end
folder if you're going to use that.
And then we can get back to typing here,
so
image source, image/headerlogo.svg.
That's going to be our image here for
the logo.
And then we of course
always need our alt text,
Wall of Wonder, Click for home.
I always like to add the Click for
home at the end of my alt text
because it's a clickable logo.
If we just say Wall of Wonder,
no one has any idea what it's there for.
So, I always like to say Click for
home to indicate its purpose.
And then we can close that,
close the link,
close the li, Save that.
And once again when we refresh the page,
now you should see the logo up
there with its own bullet point.
So the last thing that we probably
are going to wind up needing here,
because once again we want to have yellow,
we want it to stretch the full
width of the web page.
We can add to this,
I'm gonna do the exactly same thing here,
div with the class of header, And we can
close that div down here at the bottom.
So that will style it up so
that that header class gives us
the yellow all the way across.
Then the header which is the more
meaningful, more semantic tag is a one
level in, that is gonna contain our
navigation bar and our logo and so forth.
>> Sometimes when I make a web page and
the footer displays kind of in
the center of the screen,
it's not sticking to the bottom.
>> Okay.
>> What's the solution for that?
>> Well if your footer is displaying in
the middle of the page and it's on top of
some stuff, then you were probably using
some kind of positioning with that.
Often it's sticky positioning or
it's fixed positioning that
you're using with your footer and
that can do some weird things.
If you are using regular old position
static styling, that's the default for
all HTML elements unless you change
the position property to some other value.
Your footer should always be at
the bottom of the web page or
in the source order, exactly in
the order in which it should go.
Unless you're talking about the footer
shows up in the middle of a web page
because the page is short.
Is that the other problem?
And that would be the other issue.
Remember, what I told you
earlier is that the height of
the content determines
the height of the web page.
So the content by default, if you only
have a tiny little bit of content,
then that footer is definitely
gonna come up and show up wherever,
in the middle of the page or
someplace else.
Wherever that content ends and
the footer is coming up right after it.
So if you don't want that type of effect
you could always set some kind of
height somewhere on your web page.
Or tell Flexbox to stretch.
Or some combination of those types of
things to try to push the footer down to
the bottom.
So that would be something that
I would think about there too.